
Generative AI advantages

- Let's take a look at seven different advantages that generative AI technologies have over other tech. We'll start with adaptability. Generative AI excels in adapting to diverse tasks and problem domains, which makes it useful in a lot of areas. Depending on the foundation model, it can switch between language, visual, and other sorts of applications without needing a lot of reconfiguration, and this really makes it useful in so many different scenarios. Next is responsiveness. And this is of course going to be dependent on the amount of resources that are dedicated to serving a model. But they can rapidly produce outputs in near real time, which gives you really fast response to queries and conversations. They can process information, generate relevant content, that makes 'em really useful for things like a customer support chat bot. Our next advantage is simplicity and that generative AI models can take a complex concept or workflow and reduce it down to make it easier to digest or easier to deal with. They're great for summarizing large complex documents. They can reword certain phrases to make them simpler to understand. They can be used to generate code where you supply just using human language, the requirements of what you want, and it spits out the actual code for you. Next is creativity and exploration. Generative AI makes it possible to explore all sorts of different areas of art and music and so on for creating content. And of course, it's based on learned patterns, but a lot of the new content can be really cool. It's great for prototyping if you want to design things like corporate logos, and so you can help push the boundaries beyond the standard human imagination. Our next advantage is data efficiency, and this is because these models can be designed to learn effectively from a relatively small dataset and then use inference in order to get to the correct results. And so this can reduce the dependency on a massive labeled or structured dataset. Next, we have personalization where generative AI models can tailor the output to the needs, preferences, and context of the individual users. If you're in the middle of a conversation using generative AI, it can refer to prior context within the same conversation to give more appropriate responses. And finally, we have scalability. Generative AI models have been designed to scale horizontally across distributed computing environments so that they can support high volume data, lots of requests or prompts, and can generate outputs in a lot of different areas all at the same time.





Generative AI disadvantages

- Let's take a look at seven different disadvantages of generative AI models where they might be an anti-pattern and not especially useful. Our first disadvantage is that Gen AI models could inadvertently create content that's going to violate regulatory guidelines, such as misleading advice, content that doesn't comply with standards. And so organizations that use these models may run into challenges, and it's a reminder that whatever is being returned as a result of Generative AI prompts in a lot of cases, there needs to be an actual human looking over that. Next, we have Social Risks, and Generative AI, especially video generation, can be used to create deep fakes, or with other types of media disinformation, biased content, and this can cause all sorts of problems, from trust, public opinion, polarization, and so the potential for misuse is something that we all need to be careful with. Our next disadvantage is Data Security and Privacy, and a lot of times Generative AI models have been trained on sensitive datasets or have access to them, and even with the best guardrails, sometimes they can be tricked into inadvertently revealing private data that they were used for training. Next is Toxicity, and this is going to be similar to the social risk in that they could create potentially toxic or harmful content inadvertently, offensive language, inappropriate suggestions, self-harm, those sorts of things, and this is sometimes based on biases or patterns that were present already in the data that they were used to be trained on. Next, we have Hallucinations, and this is where the Gen AI model literally just makes up facts and presents them from an authoritative standpoint. The idea of hallucination is honestly what generative AI does. It's when it misrepresents what it believes to be a true statement, as just something that was made up as part of the results, and there can be some real damage caused by this hallucination quality. And next we have Interpretability. Trying to figure out and follow the chain of thought whereby a generative AI model came up with a result can be really difficult, and so this lack of transparency can cause problems with trust or acceptance. And then our final disadvantage is Nondeterminism, which can be an advantage when it comes to creativity and exploration, but if you need a static result every single time when you are generating a certain prompt, Gen AI is going to struggle with that. And there are ways that you can reduce the Nondeterminism, but it's very difficult to reduce it to zero, and that makes things like debugging a struggle.



Model selection decision tree

- Let's take a look at a generative AI model selection decision tree. And it really comes down to, the primary question is what content are you trying to generate? What mode of content? And so we start with text. This is one of the most common use cases and it may require some specialization, and so we need to dig just a little bit deeper into text. If you're looking for just creative writing, conversational tone, a general purpose model might be perfectly appropriate for that with no modifications. If you want to do something in legal, financial, or compliance content, a fine-tuned model might be appropriate. But if you need something in technical or scientific language along with the logic that goes with it, then you start to get in a little bit closer to creating your own model, specifically for that domain. So if we go back to our tree, we ask about images. Is that what you're trying to generate? These are going to vary by quality, realism, artistry, performance, but for the most part, they're going to be the same types of models. Really comes down to cost and resources. Same with audio, which is not just speech, it could be music or some other type. And even white noise could be created using this. Under video, this is probably the most resource-intensive, and there's a reason why this particular type of generative AI tends to lag behind the other technologies because it is so resource-intensive. And then finally, we have multimodal, and this is where you get to the most complicated models out of all of them. Now, there are some other considerations for selecting a model, like performance and latency. If you are prioritizing speed, you very well end up with a smaller model. If you prioritize accuracy, that's a larger model, but slower response. There are ways to get both, but it requires an extraordinary cost to do so. Next we have customization. Are you going to fine-tune? Do you need to generate a new model from scratch? That increases cost and complexity. Next, we have constraints and resources. If you have some sort of constraint, it might lead you to choose a different type of model that wouldn't be optimal, otherwise, like a smaller model. And then you have the trade off of accuracy. And finally, GRC, governance, risk and compliance. If you have some strict requirements here, it might lead you to host a model on-prem or some sort others kind of private hosting to be able to be compliant in this area.


Generative AI business value and metrics

- What is business value? How can it be calculated? Is there a single definition for business value? Well, answers to these questions are going to vary. Business value, in the context of generative AI, can mean a number of different things depending on the workload or product that it's being used in. And being able to understand the business value and evaluate it is going to help with determine whether or not the use of AI is appropriate, and especially if it's aligned with the business goals. And so we have some main areas that we'd like to focus on here to kind of understand better business value: performance, efficiency, revenue, and customer-centric metrics, which kind of break down into some other areas. So if we take a look at performance first, cross-domain performance, this is going to measure how well the generative AI performs across different fields or use cases. An example here is if you have a chatbot that's being trained in customer support, can it also be used for sales? The business impact here is at the higher this metric is, it leads to broader applicability. It means you don't have to have as many models or fine-tuning to perform specific tasks. Next, we have efficiency. And this is going to measure the speed and the resource consumption of the models during training as well as inference. And an example here is that if you can reduce the time it takes for a model to generate an output, there could be other metrics associated with that that are more explicitly business value related, like revenue. And so with this, the business impact can be relatively obvious. Next, we have conversion rate, and this is going to refer to the percentage of users who take a desired action that they've been recommended to do, which includes things like making a purchase on an e-commerce website. And a generative AI tool that creates personalized recommendations, if the users end up buying them, that's a good conversion rate. And the higher the conversion rate, well, the higher the sales, and that makes it easy to justify the implementation. Next, we have ARPU, average revenue per user, and this is exactly what it sounds like. It's a financial metric, and it represents the revenue generated per user over, say, a year's time. And so if you use generative AI in an e-commerce platform, maybe a recommendation engine, if that drives higher user engagement and purchases, then the business impact is pretty clear. If you can increase the average revenue per user, that pretty easily justifies the use of generative AI. Next, we have accuracy, and this is how often the AI model gives desirable output. An example of accuracy is if you have a content generation generative AI that is creating marketing copy. And if it's accepted on the first draft or really close to the first draft, that is important. The higher the accuracy, the more the satisfaction. It reduces the need for humans to step in and do the work. And next, we have customer lifetime value. And this is CLV. It represents, rather than ARPU, this is the total revenue that a business can expect from a specific customer over the relationship. And if AI-driven content or support or recommendations can improve customer retention, that is very likely going to increase customer lifetime value, which again, is a relatively straightforward business impact, which justifies the use of the technology.



Question breakdown, part 1

- In this question breakdown, we have a scenario that is going to use the context of a healthcare organization using generative AI. Let's go ahead and take a look at the question. A healthcare organization is using a generative AI model to assist in writing patient diagnosis reports. The model processes patient data, generates potential diagnoses, and drafts a report for the medical team to review. However, after deploying the model, several issues arise, including concerns over the accuracy of the diagnoses. Which of the following is the most likely issue this organization is facing with their generative AI system? We have four different options here, toxicity, hallucinations, interpretability, and non-determinism. And so let's go ahead and look at the definitions of each of these to see if we can determine whether or not we've got an easy identification of a correct answer or if we can at least eliminate everything else. We'll start with toxicity. Well, this refers to AI generated content that has harmful, offensive, inappropriate language. And while this, you know, this can be a serious concern in other use cases, that is not likely to be the issue that is being represented here with medical reports. Next is hallucinations. And these are when generative AI produces incorrect or fabricated information, especially when it is presented as factual or with some sort of authoritative tone. That can be extraordinarily problematic when it comes to healthcare, where a made-up diagnosis can be dangerous, it could be life-threatening. This is likely to be the issue that is being observed. We still want to eliminate the other choices, though. Interpretability. This is important to be able to understand how the generative AI output or response was generated, but that's not necessarily going to be directly tied to accuracy. Finally, we have non-determinism, and this is where generative AI produces different outputs given the same input. And while this is really cool when it comes to creative uses of content generation, that's not necessarily what's desired with a medical report. However, that does not necessarily inherently represent inaccuracy. And so after looking through these answer choices, the only one that really fits is B, hallucinations.





Question breakdown, part 2

- In this practice question, we've got a scenario that involves a customer support chatbot using generative AI. And let's go ahead and take a look at the scenario details. You are a data scientist at a company that needs to implement a generative AI model to automate the generation of customer support responses. The model must handle conversational text, including both common queries and more technical questions that are specific to your industry. Additionally, you need the model to ensure low latency to respond to live chat sessions within two seconds. Your company operates in a highly regulated industry, so compliance with data privacy standards is also critical. Which generative AI model type would be appropriate? So we're going to go ahead and take a look at our answer choices. We've got four options here. Each of them a different type of model. And after we've taken a look at these, we're going to go ahead and dig through each of them one at a time. We'll see if we can figure out if any of them can be eliminated or if we can identify the one answer that matches better than the others. So we'll go ahead and start with a small domain-specific model fine-tuned on customer support queries. Well, this actually provides a good balance between the technical queries as well as maintaining low latency. That smaller model gives us a faster performance, makes it good for real time, and we could then consider deploying it privately so that we can meet our compliance requirements as well. This is a pretty good answer, but let's see if we can do better than this. B, a large general-purpose text generation model deployed using a cloud-based API. And while this might give us all the flexibility we need for common and technical queries, we could end up with latency issues, especially if we need real time performance. And on top of that, because we are no longer responsible for hosting the model, that could introduce problems from a compliance perspective. Let's move on to C. A large general-purpose text generation model deployed privately on-prem. So instead of hosting in some public cloud, now we're doing it on-prem, unlike B, that addresses the compliance concerns, but we still have an issue with large model and latency, especially if we have to come up with the resources to host it on-premises. That brings us to our final answer. A multimodal model capable of generating text, images and audio. This is versatile, might be able to handle all the various conversation types, but our specific scenario is only asking about text. This might add complexity, resource requirements, which could lead us to slower response times. And so this really isn't a good fit for our particular use case. And after looking at all these answer choices, B, C, and D really just aren't that appropriate, whereas A, the small domain-specific model fits our use case perfectly. And so this is our correct answer.







